A video posted on Monday by a British newspaper appeared to show a Republican consultant with ties to Donald J. Trump offering to disguise the source of contributions to a “super PAC” intended to aid Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign.

In an accompanying article, the newspaper, The Telegraph, wrote that two of its reporters, posing as representatives of a Chinese national who supported Mr. Trump as the Republican presidential nominee, had proposed making a $2 million contribution in support of him. According to the newspaper, the G.O.P. consultant, Jesse Benton, had proposed routing the contribution through his own public relations firm and into nonprofit groups that do not disclose their donors, disguising the foreign source. The groups would then make the contribution to the super PAC, known as Great America PAC, or spend it to benefit Mr. Trump.

United States law strictly forbids foreign nationals from making contributions to candidates, political parties or PACs. And Mr. Benton has a checkered history: Last month he was sentenced to two years of probation for his role in a 2012 scheme to make secret payments to an Iowa state senator in exchange for an endorsement.

But the video does not show how the reporters identified themselves and reflects only snippets of the reporters’ conversations with Mr. Benton, making it difficult to verify exactly what Mr. Benton had offered or whether any laws were broken.

Mr. Benton stopped formally working for the super PAC last spring, after his conviction in the endorsement-buying scheme. Dan Backer, a lawyer for Great America, suggested that Mr. Benton had exaggerated his ties to the super PAC and said that Mr. Benton had no authority to solicit contributions.

“I think it’s pretty clear that someone who used to work for the organization decided to leverage that former relationship for his own purposes,” Mr. Backer said. “We did not take, we did not solicit, we did not accept any foreign contributions directly or indirectly.”

Mr. Backer acknowledged that the undercover reporters first contacted Eric Beach, the PAC’s co-chairman, who referred them to Mr. Benton. But Mr. Backer said it was for Mr. Benton to advise the supposed donors on legal activities they could conduct in the United States.

In the video, shot during a meeting at a New York hotel, Mr. Benton can be seen saying, “I’ll send money from my company to both.” The video then cuts to another shot, with Mr. Benton agreeing that money would move from his firm into a nonprofit. In neither case does the video show the full exchange.